---
title: Installation
description: Using Tailwind CSS in your Nuxt project is only one command away.
---

## Installation

1. Install `@nuxtjs/tailwindcss` dependency to your project:

::code-group

```bash [nuxi]
npx nuxi@latest module add tailwindcss
```

```bash [npm]
npm install -D @nuxtjs/tailwindcss
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add -D @nuxtjs/tailwindcss
```

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm i -D @nuxtjs/tailwindcss
```

::

::callout{color="amber" icon="i-ph-warning-duotone"}
For Nuxt 2.15 and lower, also add [`@nuxt/postcss8`](https://github.com/nuxt/postcss8) to your dependencies.
::

2. If not already done, add it to your `modules` section in your `nuxt.config`:

::code-group

```ts [Nuxt 3]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/tailwindcss']
})
```

```ts [Nuxt 2]
export default {
  buildModules: ['@nuxtjs/tailwindcss']
}
```

::

### Nightly Releases

After each commit is merged into the `main` branch of `@nuxtjs/tailwindcss` and **passing all tests**, we trigger an automated npm release using GitHub Actions and [changelogen](https://github.com/unjs/changelogen).

You can opt in to use this release channel and avoid waiting for the next release and helping the module by beta testing changes.

The build and publishing method and quality of nightly releases are the same as stable ones. The only difference is that you should often check the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/tailwindcss) for updates. There is a slight chance of regressions not being caught during the review process and by the automated tests. Therefore, we internally use this channel to double-check everything before each release.

#### Opting into the nightly channel

Update `@nuxtjs/tailwindcss` dependency inside `package.json`:

```diff [package.json]
{
  "devDependencies": {
-   "@nuxtjs/tailwindcss": "^6.0.0"
+   "@nuxtjs/tailwindcss": "npm:@nuxtjs/tailwindcss@nightly"
  }
}
```

Remove lockfile (`package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, or `pnpm-lock.yaml`) and reinstall dependencies.

#### Opting out from the edge channel

Update `@nuxtjs/tailwindcss` dependency inside `package.json`:

```diff [package.json]
{
  "devDependencies": {
-   "@nuxtjs/tailwindcss": "npm:@nuxtjs/tailwindcss@nightly"
+   "@nuxtjs/tailwindcss": "^6.0.0"
  }
}
```

Remove lockfile (`package-lock.json`, `yarn.lock`, or `pnpm-lock.yaml`) and reinstall dependencies.

## Tailwind Files

When running your Nuxt project, this module will look for these files:

- `./assets/css/tailwind.css`
- `./tailwind.config.{js,cjs,mjs,ts}`

If these files don't exist, the module will automatically generate a basic configuration for them, so you don't have to create these files manually.

You can create the `tailwind.config.js` file by running the following command, as noted by [the Tailwind CSS installation guide](https://v3.tailwindcss.com/docs/installation):

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npx tailwindcss init
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn tailwindcss init
```

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm dlx tailwindcss init
```

::

::callout{color="amber" icon="i-ph-warning-duotone"}
If the above fails, you can try `npx tailwindcss-cli init`.
::

If you're going to create your own CSS file for Tailwind CSS, make sure to add the [`@tailwind`](https://v3.tailwindcss.com/docs/functions-and-directives#tailwind) directives:

```css [~/assets/css/tailwind.css]
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Learn more about overwriting the configuration in the [Tailwind CSS Configuration](/tailwindcss/configuration) section.

## Module Configuration

You can customize the module's behavior by using the `tailwindcss` property in `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@nuxtjs/tailwindcss'],
  tailwindcss: {
    // Options
  }
})
```

Refer to the [module options](/getting-started/module-options) section for the available options.
